are you looking to create backups and
perform restores for Oracle databases
worries with DV mix for Oracle we can
easily restore the database back to an
earlier point in time to a transaction
look in the lab to see how we can easily
created a backup job with Oracle virtual
machines inside to take a quick look at
devotional machine what you want to go
to his guest processing make sure you
enabled click applications select T
Oracle virtual machine click Edit and
here here you want to have a credential
with sis TV privileges you want to
enable the backup locks area in the
event that you want to be able to do
point in time resource and finally you
can decide how long do you want to risk
a nice long backups
backups we can see we have to restore
points we have some Oracle lock back up
sitting already if we go to the
production database and run a query Heon
run scripts we can see it has already
some contents inside this EMP table
drop apply we can run again just to see
that now the table does not exist how do
easy select a virtual machine
want to use the latest restore point
and this will actually mount up the
backup and open up tbéamé explorer for
Oracle inside here can select the
database if you have more of course
database and we can see here we have the
option to restore to the latest date or
to a point in time so like point in time
here and here we have the option to say
ok is it D latest point in time or do we
have as
Pacific point in time and in the event
that you want to go to a specific
transaction you would have to use this
option down here but then I would have
to go to file options and specify a
staging server so it would be up here
options then we could specify the
staging server here now but example here
all essentially just restore to the
latest state now that the restore has
finished
City Oracle and sequel developer will do
right click in connect again and we can
see the EMP table is back we run a query
again you can see the table contents is
back again thank you for watching this
video
you
