Veen backup for microsoft office 365
gives you the ability to securely backup
and protect your office 365 data from
accidental deletion security threats and
retention policy gaps additionally with
this solution you can easily restore
exchange emails calendar events and
contacts office 365 SharePoint sites as
well as onedrive for business files and
take a look at the demonstration in this
demonstration of being backup for
begin by connecting to an organization
to do this we right click on
organizations and select add
to see the types of organizations we
have to choose from when we click on the
select organization deployment type
365 a hybrid deployment or even an
on-premise deployment for Exchange or
SharePoint you can also select the
Exchange Online SharePoint Online and
and take a look at the rest of the menu
an existing organization which is right
here we right-click select edit and now
we see the menu for the pre-existing
organization in the first menu we see
365 organization when we select next
to select different authentication
methods including modern and basic
going to specify an administrative
account so we paste the password below
we can grant this user account required
roles and permissions via a check box or
even use the same credentials for
SharePoint Online and onedrive for
access to be able to manage these roles
it verifies step-by-step as it connects
up to this organization once this is
completed we can select fit
and then go down to the backup
infrastructure option in the left menu
right-click and select edit on one of
the pre-configured proxies the first
window will show which system this proxy
is located on additionally we can see
communicating through
completed all of these steps the last
menu will allow us to deploy the proxy
like to look at is the properties so
and go to the properties menu under the
general tab of the backup proxy
properties we see the options to set the
nber of threads as well as limit the
network bandwidth if we check the box
below we will be setting this to one
megabyte per second the internet proxy
tab would allow us to either use the
internet proxy settings from the
management server or hard-code our own
the backup repositories that have been
default repository and select edit here
we see the name of that repository as
in this menu we can see the proxy that
this is attached to this is the proxy
that office 365 information will be
stored in and will not be shared with
any other Veen products here we see the
next the retention policy is where we
this data within this repository as you
this repository is using the item level
retention option which means each item
has this retention policy attached to it
individually this means any items older
than 10 years will be purged from this
repository we also have snapshot based
retention which is more similar to Veen
backup and replication or the veem
agents meaning we use a snapshot of that
mailbox and restore it in the exact same
state in the bottom right we see the
advanced top
open that allows us to apply retention
policies either added daily or monthly
interval to remove the items or
complete the process that completes the
back out and take a look at some
existing jobs to do this
well select organizations on the left
pre-existing jobs show up on the right
once we right-click we see the option to
start the job or we can even select one
of the existing Veeam explorers in this
example that shows exchange we could
also select the SharePoint Explorer
created the name we included ten-year
retention to make it easier to be able
to locate this job
that allows us to select the objects to
back up we could choose to back up the
entire organization but in this example
we chose to back up the following
listed object we select edit and it
up onedrive or the SharePoint sites in
see that we have included a public
mailbox I can also select the Add button
on the right to exclude users groups or
even specific sites if needed in the
next menu we simply set up the proxy and
the repository through a drop-down list
and then we can select next in the
scheduling options menu we can run the
job automatically either daily or it
periodically the drop-down window will
give you many options to choose from we
also have the option to select how many
times we want to retry a failed object
terminate a job if it exceeds the
allowed backup window this can also
prevent jobs from consing too much
bandwidth outside of that said window
once we click Save we complete the
process of configuring back up for
office 365
to give a complete demonstration of how
on the bottom left hand and open up
choose an individual email to delete and
and remove it from here as well this
from the deleted items to recover this
item we return to the backup for office
365 interface select Explorer and open
the Explorer for exchange as this was an
gonna pull from the most recent pool of
data to do this I expand the store in
the Explorer interface from here I can
select the mailbox that I was just in
and go down to the inbox to simplify the
process of finding this mail and all of
something that we know is already in the
some of the options from that drop-down
menu we see the options to open this
email or open the items location we can
restore this to the original email
location or to a different exchange
server we can also export it to the
desktop as a PST file or export it to a
separate location as a PST file we can
save it to the desktop as an MSG file or
to a different location additionally we
can send this to the original email
going to restore back to the original
mailbox of the user for this example the
example does not have the access to
restore this to the original location so
we will be prompted to put in
credentials that will allow us to do
this this user will also need to have
permission to recover data within this
organization once you provide the name
and the password for this account and we
select ok in a short period of time
restored to its original location
selecting the see more option will show
us more information about this job now
when we go back to that inbox that we
that we delete
has now been recovered back to its
original location that will complete the
back up for office 365 demonstration
thank you
you
