version 9.5 update for on a Windows 2012
server during the process you will see
the GUI and the step-by-step process of
installing vm 1 at the end of the
license through the veem 1 monitor tool
demonstration we will show you how to
install veeam 1 version 9.5 update 4 on
going to go into this directory and
select the executable or the disk image
file that will allow us to install this
now loaded in the D Drive we can choose
the setup file once we double-click the
setup file you see the option here for
v1 9.5 update 4 and we can see we can
choose to do a general install look at
docentation check for training but we
also have the option to do standalone
component installs here we see v1 server
and monitor client that we could install
gonna choose the general install for the
install process in this demonstration
the first window you will see will be
the license agreement window and here
scroll through to read all the
information about the agreement and then
accept the Venus ins agreement as well
as accept the terms of a third-party
component License Agreement you could
next the next window is setup type you
could choose typical which installs all
components on a single server which is
default or you can choose advanced which
allows you to do this manually
window is the installation path in this
disk space to ensure that whichever type
we chose there will be enough space for
the components that we want to install
installing all the components on the
same server so we have to ensure that we
have enough space for everything
this will take a little time so we do
need to be patient once the calculation
is complete under the installation path
window will they have the option to
either browse for a new path or leave
the default path below the installation
path you will see that this installation
account credentials the username has
already been populated in this example
for the username selected once we select
instance page here you will see that
see that they already have a location
set but we can browse for a new location
and they also have a name set but we can
also browse for a separate database name
to use Windows authentication
information page we can choose the
report or website port we can also
choose the veeam one agent port we can
also choose a certificate and we can
even select from a drop-down list if we
default and then move forward by
selecting next in the performance data
caching option we select a local folder
where we can cache performance data
retrieved from monitored virtual machine
see three options the first is optimized
for typical deployments less than a
hundred hosts and 1500 VMs the next
option is advanced scalability
deployment which is above the hundred
host 1500 VMs and the third is backup
at the ready to install window we want
to double check the list below to ensure
that everything here is correct and what
can select next and start the install
process this will take some time and
each step to see which portion is being
installed during this process the bar in
the menu will turn
Green and show the progress of each
component being installed this will take
some time so be patient for the purpose
of demonstration we may speed this up
just to save time in the video
the following window shows us that the
installation succeeded and now it is
complete once we see this window we can
select finish below and we will be done
with this portion of the installation
with the installation complete on the
desktop we see two new icons we see one
for v1 monitor and one for beam one
reporter below in this demonstration we
chose to uninstall and reinstall beam
one and we did not get to see how to add
open up the v1 monitor utility so we go
over and double-click the v1 monitor
icon on the desktop and this will open
up the interface in which we can log in
will stay with the used windows session
credentials and select the connect
v1 monitor interface open in the top
those is for help once the application
completely loads we can click on the
help option and from here we should see
in the drop down menu the option for
license information now we select that
option for license information and the
window appears and now we can see that
there is an option to view installed key
as we said earlier we knew that there
ahead and select this this will show us
license but the only license that we
have is the currently loaded license so
I can show you where you could go under
it say the C Drive and install to load a
an error message this is just a
demonstration to show you where you
could install a license after the
installation this will conclude the
demonstration on how to install v1 thank
you for watching this is just one of
many of the great how-to videos we have
on this site
you
