the vena Explorer from Microsoft sequel
is a great tool to be able to restore a
backed-up database to its original
sequel server or even a separate sequel
server if needed you can also restore to
a local folder a network drive or even
restore option you can even restore
sequel tables now another great feature
is to instantly publish a point in time
state of any backed up database to a
selected sequel server for something
like tests dev the great part about this
backup file another great feature is to
be able to export a point in time state
of any backed up database to a native
dot bak file this is new and update for
and sequel can read this directly and be
take a look at a demonstration you see
we have the Veen backup and replication
server interface already open and the
bottom-left we start in the home menu in
the upper left area we select backups
and then disk and then expand vmware
2016 prod this is our sequel server disk
points and this will show us how many
restore points for each one of these
discs currently the sequel server has 19
when we right click we can go down to
restore application items and then
select Microsoft sequel server databases
from here you will see those restore
points we talked about earlier now I can
choose either restore from the latest
going to select restore from this
restore point and select two days ago
305 a.m. now I select next and just as
always going to type something select
next and before I finish I always want
to double-check at the top here to show
that the restore point is the one that I
selected before and in this example this
a.m. Tuesday so now we know we have the
right one selected we select finish and
now the Explorer launches
this Explorer is going to attach to the
database file inside the backup file and
be able to read it without having to
launch a virtual machine or an operating
system to be able to access this content
shows us the server the default instance
was which is a collection of all the
make this simple and select word
automation services I know this is a
my example at the top you will see
published database as an option restore
database or store schema export backup
export files an export schema if I right
click I get those same menu options at
the bottom I can publish this to a
different location
it gives me the option to restore at the
same point selected of the image level
backup or beneath here if I chose I
could restore it to a different point
using the slider bar when I select next
this is where I can select my target
we also have the option to restore the
database to a certain point to this
server or we can restore to another
server we can also just restore the
schema if we chose back to the original
database beneath that we can export the
backup export files or export the schema
and all three options give us the or
the desktop or another folder location
as you can see very convenient to be
gonna show export backup this is a new
feature in update 4 where we can
actually export this in the native
select export state to the desktop this
now mounts the restore point and from
be able to put it on the desktop as a
restore point as a bak file easy to find
but again in that sequel format so it
goes through the process of starting the
copying the files once again it was a
very small file so it was very quick to
cleaning up after dismounting the
restore point and shortly after this
the background interface so we can show
you that database exported successfully
desktop you will see that we have the
dot back file exported to the desktop
thank you very much
