to create a virtual machine backup job
using Veen backup and replication in our
virtual machine but Microsoft hyper-v is
also supported in addition you could
backup Windows and Linux physical
machines using the agent we will also
touch on where you can configure backup
modes like incremental and reverse
application-aware processing and
demonstration to begin on the left menu
will select jobs
once you select jobs in the window
backup jobs and in the drop down menu
machines Windows computers and Linux
virtual machines and vmware vsphere as
our option this will open up the window
that we can use to configure the backup
job the first step in a new backup job
would be to give it a unique name for
type tests from here we can select next
in this step we will be adding the
virtual machines that we would like to
include in this backup job so on the
right we will select add and this will
give us the interface that first shows
us hosts and clusters as well as the
hosts beneath it when I select the arrow
to the left of Vimy ESX this will expand
and show me the resource pools that are
stored within that host if I expand
these resource pools now you can see the
virtual machines that are held within
each one of these resource pools in the
upper right hand corner of the add
objects menu we can select different
views like VMs and templates when I
select this view and hit the drop-down
next option in the upper right hand
corner would be data stores and virtual
machines like the name says if I do an
expansion you will see the data stores
first than the VM stored within each one
of these data stores the last option
would be for tags when I select this if
I had tags setup I would be able to
going to use the host in clusters view
another option you would have defined
virtual machines
if this environment had a lot of virtual
machines to choose from is go down to
going to type in tiny hit the search and
now I can see anything that has the name
tiny in it and we will select tiny -
beam and click Add
once the VM is listed I can select it
and if I had multiple virtual machines
beneath I could use the up and down
buttons to the right to move them up and
down in the order in which I would like
ahead and select next under storage at
the top of the menu we see backup proxy
if we would like to change the automatic
selection we can click Choose and from
here we have the additional option of
user selected backup proxy servers only
so in here we can control which backup
on to the next which is the backup
multiple options for different
that was there originally and then move
on to the next option which is configure
secondary destination job this is for
backup copy configuration if I select
option appears over on the left side
this is called secondary target if I
uncheck the box it will disappear again
if I check the box I now have the option
to configure those backup copy jobs
the next advanced in the advanced menu
backup tab because there are other
videos in the how-to series that will go
into more detail on these additional
and focus on this content the first
option under backup mode is reverse
incremental the second option is
incremental this option will include
forward and forever forward incremental
options beneath that we were doing
forward incrementals you would have the
option to select create synthetic full
and then select days so you can choose
fools to be executed on select okay and
move forward below now we can see create
active full backups periodically and
again once we select these options as
well we could go over if we selected
weekly to the days option and see the
same options we had under synthetic now
if we uncheck both of these boxes this
will fall back to forever forward
incrementals so once again if I check
either one of these I will now be using
ahead and select okay and move on to the
next menu the next feature will look at
is enable application aware processing
one of the reasons to use this is to
take advantage of Microsoft VSS or
vole Shadow Copy Service to be able to
grab in-flight information and commit it
to the disk before the snapshot is taken
in the applications menu we see tiny
veeam and any other virtual machine that
highlight tiny veem and select edit and
the first option is for application and
options beneath that we can select from
which is require successful processing
which is recommended or try application
processing but ignore failures and last
disable application processing
altogether next we have transaction logs
this is going to be more toward database
information capture from memory to the
choose whether this job should process
transaction logs upon successful backup
additionally it says log pruning is
supported for Microsoft Exchange
Microsoft sequel server and oracle the
two options included are processed
transaction logs with this job which is
see sequel and Oracle have been broken
out into separate tabs which means we
can manage the transaction file capture
for each one of these platforms in a
file exclusions next
in this menu you have the option to
disable file level exclusions or you can
exclude the following files and folders
or include only the following files and
folders in separate menus and as you can
have scripts you require ignore or
disable options are really controlling
below the windows pre freeze and post
thought scripts and Linux pre freeze and
post thought scripts that you can inject
into these backup jobs within the
click cancel and then select ok the next
step will be to configure the guest that
execute the processes during the enable
application aware processing so here
administrator account and move on to
briefly cover an able guest file
indexing so we can check the box click
the indexing button here we can select
tiny veeam and then when we select edit
Linux indexing well select Windows and
then the options will see disable
indexing index everything or index
everything except or index only the
there and then move down to the bottom
where we see the guest interaction proxy
the guest interaction proxy is the
access inside of the operating systems
can do automatic or we can actually
prefer the following guest interaction
proxy server and you can see the list
below that we could select from one or
can select next under schedule we can
check to run the job automatically and
then choose daily monthly periodically
pretty simple to understand as you can
see we also have the automatic retry
option and below that you will see the
backup window which terminate jobs if it
exceeds the allowed backup window which
you can configure here under window so
review a smary and we can select run
this job when I click finish and then
click finish now we can select jobs in
the left menu and over on the right side
currently under status that shows zero
completed and then in the next row we
go down to the bottom and select running
we can also see this job because it has
completed if we look at the bottom under
actions we can watch each one of these
take place step by step in order this is
a great place to make sure that
everything is functioning properly or if
you have any errors as things begin to
bottom here you can see more steps and
when it exceeds the size of that action
window to the far right you will see a
bar that will allow you to scroll thank
you for watching this demonstration and
make sure you check out more of the
how-to videos in our series
