corporate messaging solutions including
Microsoft Exchange can create many
challenges when it comes to restoring
one or multiple items veem Explorer from
Microsoft Exchange is a tool available
to users of being backup and replication
with this tool users can browse and
restore mailboxes messages folders tasks
contacts and more you can even restore
hard deleted items and litigation hold
items another great feature is the
ability to be able to export into a dot
PST file be aware 64-bit outlook will
need to be installed on the system that
is running the Explorer for Microsoft
start with the Veen backup and
replication the server interface already
open under home we see backups and then
underneath backups we see disk under
disk we will select a pre created menu
grouping and highlight the atl exch or
exchange 2016 server when i right click
this gives me the option to restore
application items and under that we see
the Microsoft exchange mailbox items
option once I select that it presents me
with my options of files to be able to
restore from including incremental and
taking a 301 a.m. Saturday full backup I
gonna type something in the restore
options item I select next and in the
smary I always double check to ensure
looking for or backup file and this does
show 17 days ago 301 a.m. as I selected
earlier when I select finish the VM
Explorer now opens and it now mounts the
backup file to be able to directly read
the exchange database this is a great
restore fully or boot up an exchange
server to get to this database so once
the mailbox database is loaded as
we expand it searches through and then
presents us with all the users within
Alex and expand Alex and you can see
calendar items contact items just as if
you were managing exchange but more
inbox in larger environments we could
use a search or even advanced search
option to find specific emails just to
ensure I can right click and select open
and it will show me what that email is
this is a great feature to ensure that
you are restoring the right mail so from
there if I right click I have the option
mailbox on this domain or I could
restore it to another exchange server in
another domain I could also export this
to the desktop as a PST file or export
it elsewhere as a PST file one thing to
be aware of which you will see 64 that
outlook needs to be installed on the
system the beam Explorer for exchange is
running on this is a requirement we
can save this file to a specific
location or the location of my choice as
gonna select docents and when I click
OK it shows here that it has exported
one item successfully if I go into the
directory and I select docents I see
that successful recovery when we
the option to send email the default is
to send the email to the email address
defined in the settings menu
if you select another user it will still
send to the configured default that
concludes the demonstration for exchange
you
