one of the most critical areas of any
successful data protection strategy is
the ability to recover what you need
when you need it quickly to maintain
continuity of the business instant VM
recovery is a functionality within veem
that enables the user to run a failed
workload directly from the backup file
within minutes not only is this easy to
perform but this can be leveraged from
look in the software how you initiate
this restore type as well as what
options you have along the way now that
an instant VM recovery works the first
step is to launch the wizard you can do
this from one of two places one place
would be the ribbon menu under restore
and probably the shorter method is to
simply browse the backups that you have
on disk right-click the failed VM that
you need to recover and choose your very
first option which is instant VM
recovery this is going to launch the
wizard now at this point just like most
of our recoveries that you can perform
the very first step in the wizard is
choosing which version you want to bring
going to grab the latest available
restore point when you hit next now you
have the ability to go back to the
original location with all the same
settings or you can perform a restore to
a new location or perhaps with different
settings notice you do have the ability
here at the bottom to choose whether or
not you want tags to also be recovered
now from here I could modify and
redirect this instant VM recovery to
another host another folder modify the
name if I want and I could also change
the resource pool allocation if need be
suffix to the name just so we know that
this is the restored version ok now when
we hit next we do have the ability to
redirect the right cache now what the
right cache is used for is when you
log is simply there to track
the rights are the changes that are
occurring while the instant VM Recovery
is running now generally speaking this
right cache location does not exist on
production storage but rather it will
exist as a vole and folder on whatever
your repository configuration more on
that within the user guide
if you want the best possible
VM recovery good example would be a
highly transactional database workload
you may choose to redirect this right
cache over to a production data store to
pick up additional IO performance
capability that your production array
offers over that of a general spinning
disk on say a mount server now the next
option is secure restore if you want to
do a malware check before you launch the
instant VM recovery in production you
have that optional feature available
here you can proceed if malware is
detected but disable the Nix or you can
abort the recovery altogether all right
just say testing and then finally one
other very important step at the bottom
you do have the ability to choose
whether or not you want to turn this VM
on as well as connect it back to the
failure for this quick demo so we are
going to power it on automatically but
reconnect it to our production network
since the original version is still
running now had this been a real failure
chances are you would want both of these
check boxes turned on so that when it is
powered on automatically it will
automatically be accessible on your
network finally you hit restore and it
starts the process now while this
going to do is couple things nber one
you do an instant VM recovery the backup
file is always in a read-only
the integrity of your backup data that
lives on your repository by launching
this instant VM recovery all the reads
will be coming from the original backup
source but all the writes will be
captured in the redo log that we touched
on a moment ago
now you see that it actually locks the
backup file just like I said a minute
VM into the virtual infrastructure now
important to note that this is not a
finalized restore at this point instant
VM recovery is essentially done with two
right now which is getting that workload
running getting it available and
allowing the users to conse the
resources again prime example is if this
were to be an exchange server once we
get it running emails will begin flowing
outlook clients will reconnect etc but
notice here at the bottom it says
waiting for the user to start the
migration now the reason this is
see instant recovery is bold here in the
UI and you see the VM that we have in a
second step to this and once you get the
instant VM recovery running the workload
is back online your users are able to
conse that application again then you
options you can either migrate this to
production or you can stop publishing
now if this were to be a real failure
migrate to production would be the
logical choice now this is something
that you could wait until a maintenance
period or a low peak hour time of day
such as the evening before you actually
kick off this migration or if this were
another use case where you quickly
wanted to bring online a work load and
do a compare and contrast perhaps of a
setting or a database from the current
live production
state versus the way it was a week ago
my greeting it you just wanted to turn
it on briefly do your comparison and
then in that example you would simply
okay or you could open the console and
log in directly from here without even
needing to open up your vSphere client
have any intention on doing the full
restore but if you did choose migrate to
production and you do have a license for
have the storage of emotion license
functionality which will create the new
state from the instant VM recovery
version and rese it on the new version
so there will be a very very brief
period of service interruption when you
storage of emotion license so just plan
for that before you kick off that
perform the instant VM recovery thank
you so much for watching and enjoy the
rest of your day
