the V Meijin for Windows as a component
that we can install on a physical
machine to be able to back up and
restore back to its original location or
even a different location there are two
editions physical server and workstation
some of the features include active full
backups synthetic full backups
application-aware processing and even
support for clusters like dag and sequel
now some of the recovery features are
application item recovery as well as
importantly transaction log backups for
databases this is a critical feature for
someone that does support a Tier one
in this demonstration of the Veen agent
protection group this will be used to
deploy and manage the agents on the
by going over to the left side of the
interface and select inventory and then
from there we will select physical and
cloud infrastructure below this you will
see an example of a protection group
that was created for Linux as well as
and cloud infrastructure menu and go
over on the right side and select create
protection group this will define the
set of computers with other servers
workstations or even cloud instances
once we click create protection group
the menu opens and now we can provide a
name for this new protection group in
demo now we select next and we can see
three different types of protection
groups that we can select the first
being individual computers then you see
Active Directory objects and then below
that we see computers from CSV files
when you select the radial button next
the left side the menu options change if
I come over and select Microsoft Active
changes again to support that feature
and if we go to computers from CSV file
individual computers
option to add and in this menu you can
select a hostname or individual IP
address and then select the credentials
agent where you install it make sure
has the ability to install and manage on
and take a look at the computers from
CSV file option once we select next at
now this says path to file we select
browse and we are shown a server in
which we can enerate the drives on
this server to be able to select where
we would like to get the CSV file from
Drive and a D Drive and even a
repository on office 365 at the bottom
o365 repository expanded we can see the
folders that are contained within it if
I go up to the C Drive I expand that and
I can see the folders that are contained
to cancel out of this and go back once
again so we can take a look at the
Active Directory objects configuration
option for the remainder of the
protection group portion of this
demonstration we select next and now it
shows us the active directory menu
currently the domain is already
populated so we can go straight over to
add select it and we now see the
Microsoft Active Directory and then
beneath that we see the domain
controller or the domain managing that
and the objects beneath that we now
select computer accounts and under that
we expand demo stations now we can see
many of the machines that we use for our
demos in this environment
they include West East Central and so on
demonstration just to keep it simple
once we select it we can click OK and
then this will show up in our menu below
we select next to move on to the
exclusions portion of the menu and here
we can see that all virtual machines
have been excluded by default this is
due to V in being able to backup
Virtual Machines agentless Lee through
VBR which would be more efficient we
also have an option to exclude all
computers that have been offline for
over 30 days as well as very specific
objects under the following objects
in this menu we can use the drop-down to
select a master account or add a new one
and below that we have the ability to
use custom credentials for the following
or specific objects always test now
before moving forward to ensure that the
credentials are working properly now we
select next in the options menu under
discovery we can choose to rescan
protection groups either daily at a
specific time or periodically this is a
been changes under deployment we see the
option to be able to select the
distribution server this is the machine
that will be pushing out the agents
below that we have even more options
some of these features include install
see down here is recommended we can also
auto update the backup agent and even
install our own CBT driver helping
servers running applications with large
database files we can even perform a
reboot automatically if required under
more options under the agent for Windows
tabs some of the features include limit
bandwidth consption as well as
restrict metered connection usage we can
also restrict VPN connection types and
restrict Wi-Fi usage to these specific
networks additionally we have the option
to apply backup biocontrol to this
protection group as well as allow file
level recovery without administrative
account or to the security menu in the
notifications tab we have the option to
send daily agent status reports via
email use global notification settings
or custom notification settings and
isolate it to just success warning
select cancel and move on we select next
and now we can review before we deploy
in this example that shows a component
name as well
the transports the distribution service
as well as the agent have all been
deployed because they already exist so
we can cancel out and move on to the
next portion of our demonstration we go
to the left side of the menu and we
jobs is pre-selected and on the right
have two agent or Linux and one for
Windows already configured if I select
the bottom becomes populated and now we
virtual machine that we used in the
first portion of this demo this menu at
the bottom also includes some great
additional information like smary data
additional options including start this
job or even take an active full backup
if we choose statistics it opens a
breakout window of the information we
see below and if we choose show details
separate window
some people prefer this over having it
see more information the report option
will open up a web browser and show you
lot of very valuable information in here
straight to the bottom and show you the
that some features have been grayed out
this has already been configured as a
server up at the top for type and
managed by backup server at the bottom
select next and now we can see where we
could change the name of this backup job
we could select next again and in here
we could take these protected computers
we could add more or even delete ones
that are already there
backup mode options we can back up our
entire computer this could even include
the external USB drives we could do a
vole level backup
this would be specific data voles
without temporary files or page files
and we can even do a file level backup
if we chose this will still produce an
image-based backup but only with the
files and objects that you wanted to
level backup and select next in this
menu you can select a backup the
operating system or specific voles by
adding them to the menu below
the storage portion this menu shows us
the backup repository in which we are
storing the data for this configured job
see the remaining options that we have
that we could select to use as a
repository we can also choose how many
restore points to keep on this disk if
select that under the backup tab you see
the option to select synthetic full
backups or active full backups under the
maintenance tab the first option is
storage level corruption guard this can
perform backup file health checks which
can include auto healing of corrupted
files the next option is full backup
file maintenance this can defragment and
compact full backup files periodically
when the job schedule does not include
the periodic Foles we can also remove
the deleted items after a certain amount
of days and we can defragment and
compact full backup files on a schedule
that you select the storage tab has data
reduction which includes compression
levels if we click on this we see
multiple options for compression if we
collapse this and move down to storage
options we can also expand this with one
click and we see everything from large
block local target to local LAN and when
target optimization the last option
allows you to enable encryption on your
backup file on the notifications tab we
can send SNMP notifications on the
network for this job or even send email
notifications and pick the specific
recipients and the scripts tab will
allow us to apply a before the job or
after the job script if necessary for
this backup job
when we do we see a pop up window the
talks about potential data sovereignty
gonna select yes to proceed anyway this
deduplication appliance and there could
be a possible impact on performance in
the guest processing menu we see the
option for enable application aware
processing and enable guest filesystem
at the enable application aware
applications menu as they already have
and go over to the edit menu so we can
see some of these options the general
tab allows us to enable application
logs for this job we can also configure
sequel Oracle SharePoint and even have
scripts configured underneath this menu
the menu before it so we can proceed
under scheduling we have the option to
select run this job automatically and
some of these options will include daily
monthly periodically and after this job
environment
that concludes the Veen agent for
Windows demonstration
you
