copy job using Veen backup and
replication this allows us to take an
existing backup file and make a copy
into a remote repository a cloud
repository or even a local repository we
can also use compression and
deduplication to help with bandwidth one
thing to consider the first time that
you run the backup copy job it will make
a full sized copy of that backup file in
the remote location after that it will
use incrementals this is something that
you should keep in mind during your
demonstration on the left side of the
inventory we have selected to expand the
the production resource pool and in the
virtual machine called tiny - Veeam this
focusing on now if we select home and go
up to the backup category under jobs you
will see that there is a job called
backup Oracle and tiny Veen and this is
a VMware backup job listed right here so
of the jobs listed including backup copy
jobs if we select backup copy just so
copy job via when accelerators this one
you will see in the interface as we move
forward I wanted to make sure there
see backup copy for new backup copy job
and under here you will see virtual
machine and then vSphere backup you
could also do hyper-v or even go
straight to a Windows computer backup
this beam backup copy job tiny - beam so
is beneath here you will see the option
to select how many copies are
how often we want to create copies so in
at 12 a.m. it would be good to go back
to the backup job before you set this to
find out when those backup jobs are
overrun between the backup job and the
we could also choose by hour or minute
next and under next here as we select
individual backup for our demonstration
about before where we could base it on
anything within this job and this would
just select from backups now under here
three under this one three different
exclusions and source very briefly I can
exclude certain virtual machines from
this copy job if I chose by selecting
show full hierarchy and I could expand
through here so if I had a job that had
multiple VMs I could choose to isolate
or select them based on hosts and
clusters I could also switch to VMs and
the interface similar to the VMware
interface and I can also do it by data
we also have the option for tags but in
anything we can also select the source
of repository and this is the most
recent object state so the most recent
object state available might not be
exactly where you want to pull your
information so you can also select a
specific backup repository to ensure
right repository or repositories
at the target so where are we pushing
this to specify the target backup
repository and it does say amount or
amount of most recent restore points to
keep and retention policies for full
the default backup repository we also
have remote repository the replicas and
shows us right here the information
based on the remote repository we could
also choose map backup to be even more
specific
going to worry about that at this time
also too we can choose how many restore
points to keep and what kind of
scheduling is it weekly monthly
quarterly or yearly and this is where we
would configure that schedule on what we
lot of detail into the advanced option
there are other videos that show this in
maintenance options we also have storage
options for data reduction and
encryption notifications if you wanted
to send those as well as scripts for pre
cancel out of that and go to next
it does say we have a sovereignty
violation there is probably a policy
configured in this environment that is
not going to affect us just because this
now data transfer we can do a direct
transfer from the source to the target
repository or we could go through
built-in when accelerators now of course
first they would need to
be configured but if they are there we
could select the source and the target
in this example you would asse that
the source would be VBR because the
target does say remote here so we could
select VBR for this one and then we
could select remote for this and there
could be multiple options for when
keep direct just because this is a
demonstration and select next under
schedule we can select when to allow and
restrict at this point it says anytime
continuous but we could select during
the following time periods only and we
could restrict when that content can be
sent by selecting disable and anything
within that white area would be disabled
from being able to be sent at that time
everything and then we select apply
over on this side that job will appear
when I click finish so I select finish
duration we just want to watch this for
this cycle because the last one said two
minutes and nine seconds but that was
doing a full backup that process has
is making a copy of a completed backup
the processing process is being executed
where it says status and then above here
of how much data has been processed and
it now shows success right around 45
understandably it would be very quick
because the job has already been
processed so that shows us how you would
configure a backup copy job and some of
the rules that you
applied during that backup copy job
please check out more of the how-to
videos and I hope this was helpful thank
you very much
