your environment one of the final pieces
to understand is how to get started and
navigate your way through the console so
to explore the different sections within
the VM UI taking a look at certain
capabilities in functionalities to get
full advantage of all the innovation
that beam is packed into our product
the lab now at this quick tour
take a quick tour around so that you
know how to find your way and navigate
through the solution the first thing
broken out into a few different key
regions the first in primary region that
experience this is going to be where
items such as jobs will be located now
see what I would describe is the tree
navigation section and this is where if
you look at the top level of a certain
break it down even further into in this
case well what type of job do you want
to look at you want to focus on your
easy way to navigate around now the
other thing to mention around this
navigation tree is it will be
replication job created the replicas tab
will simply not show up until you have
created your very first replica same
thing with the replication node under
the jobs tree you will not see this
replication filter until you have
actually created your first replication
such a busy viewing experience for items
top ribbon navigation menu is also going
to be very important because this is one
way that you can start creating jobs as
well as facilitating restorations when
the time calls for it now another way to
create jobs is the
simply right-click in the main viewing
window and this is another way that you
can start building either your backup
backup jobs you can initiate that wizard
directly from here or you can simply
click the relevant button in the ribbon
menu at the top
now the other very important component
of navigating around the solution is
going to be the different sections of
the bottom left-hand corner of the
managing so for an example when you
first install Veen backup and
infrastructure and start making
connections to servers that are going to
be relevant such as establish a
connection with your vCenter server you
may have a hyper-v environment where you
want to establish a cluster connection
you also may want to add additional Veen
backup repositories if you only have
you want your backups to go so this
gives you the ability to add multiple
repositories perhaps some scale-out
backup repositories so that you can add
different types of storage devices in a
logical pool that Veen can leverage to
help simplify job management and also
improve the user experience
coincidentally the scale-out repository
added that you can leverage the cloud
tier if you happen to want to offload
some of your backups to object storage
now another very crucial part is the
backup proxies the proxies within our
product set are the heavy lifters
actually responsible for the compression
the deduplication and actual movement of
data so chances are you may need more
than one this is how you would locate
those in order to add additional proxies
so you get the idea the navigation tree
will change based on the section of the
under backup infrastructure now
involved with management and making and
establishing connections with different
resources within your environment now if
this is also where you can manage your
Edition or workstation Edition and you
want to manage those centrally from your
VM deployment this is where you actually
can establish protection groups and
different scopes in order to deploy and
manage those agents centrally now the
about this section menu at the bottom
left hand corner is there is a slider
that you can either reduce the size or
maximize the size and notice when you
reduce it you get the very tiny icons
here running across the bottom and one
is a lot of times when you install fiend
backup and replication this will be the
default view meaning it will end with
files
right there is your history icon and
typically that will be defaulted to the
for it it could be easily missed or
overlooked so if you ever want to look
the environment within Veen backup and
history icon and then just like before
the navigation tree is going to be
reflective of history items such as if
you wanted to look at restore history
win so look an instant VM recovery took
place if we double-click on this it
actually breaks down everything that
happened with regards to this particular
really nice about this section menu is
infrastructure well in this particular
why look at tape infrastructure from an
have any tape in your environment and
also have this
at the bottom right hand side of this
little section menu where you can
actually tweak which one of those menu
options you may want to hide so for an
example in this case we can just uncheck
tape and it goes away now if you ever
as reversing that process and simply
tape right back but this is a nice way
to customize your view so you may not
have tape you also may not have an
integrated San array from one of our
the storage infrastructure tab really
with several of our technology Alliance
also deselect that to make a customized
view based on your specific environment
now the one other thing to mention
very top left-hand corner of the feem
icon a lot of people refer to this as
the hamburger menu the global menu
whatever you want to refer to it as but
this is think of it as the primary Veen
settings menu so when you first launch
this you can go to several different
areas within the product set the first
thing to notice at the bottom this is
where you can get additional help with
the solution if you need to this is also
the location if you ever needed to
say veem support you can do that by
simply going to help and support
information and this is a wizard driven
process that will help you do Veen log
collection should you ever need that now
if we work our way up this is also where
you could apply a license if you need to
either change your license information
license that you need to apply this is
one of the couple ways that you can
apply a license the other option that
is using the Veen backup Enterprise
Manager now if we also look at the theme
you do have the ability to modify the
theme if you
Govan green or if you want to change it
graphite in this case so this is just an
aesthetic preference for you as the user
if we go up to console notice we have a
few nice tools available such as putty
PowerShell right there as well as a
remote desktop
you also have configuration backup and
this is crucial
by default the configuration backup will
an example you create a backup job along
the way at some point in time and you
enable encryption on the job but you
checkbox to do encryption on the
configuration backup you could find
yourself with a configuration backup
that is configured but not running
because you never enabled encryption so
to enable encryption on your
configuration backup
if you ever enable it within any of your
jobs inside the console now this is also
where you can change the repository
location of the configuration back up
the nber of restore points to keep
when the job is actually going to run
and the latest status of the job itself
now you can modify this and keep in mind
all this is done inside the settings
not going to show up as an additional
job listed out in the main viewing
window think about this as an integrated
settings pane and if you ever found
yourself having to do a restore from the
configuration backup you do have that
ability as well now if we look a bit
deeper this is also where you can get
into network traffic throttling rules so
you can either add in a rule that gives
you the ability to specify source and
target IP ranges you can choose to
either encrypt the network traffic or to
leave that disabled and you also have
the ability when you implement the
throttling to either throttle this all
the time or during a certain time period
only so for an example if you wanted it
to throttle traffic only during business
hours you do have the ability
to enable a throttling rule only during
your business hours just as an example
or you can just have it as in all the
time always on traffic throttling rule
and you do have the ability to add
multiples you can just continue adding
these to meet your requirements
now also under networks you have the
ability to specify a preferred network
that veem will attempt to use for all of
our traffic now notice it says preferred
not required so we will default to
trying to use this network if it is
accessible but if for whatever reason
that network happened to be inaccessible
during the time of a job run but your
say where all of your management traffic
goes we will then use that Network
instead now if we also look under users
and roles this is where you can modify
the different users and roles that have
the ability to open the console such as
operator so several different predefined
roles you can read more about the
restrictions on each of these in the
user guide you can add multiple users
that way also
notice under general options this is
like IO control now this is very
important to making sure that when veins
performance hit on your production
storage array so if you enable this
new tasks to the datastore at a certain
interval or certain threshold such as 40
IO of existing tasks once it hits a
certain threshold as well so you can
think about this like a performance
check so if we actually hit this 40
milliseconds Veeam will stop assigning
new tasks to this particular datastore
but what if things keep getting worse
because of all the impact that our
proxies potentially are putting on your
say then we can throttle exist
tasks at another level so in this case
at 80 milliseconds now if you happen to
be on Enterprise Plus you can actually
do this per datastore so you can drill
out into your environment select
individual data stores and set their own
thresholds because it is a high
they have different underlying
capabilities such as maybe you have an
all flash array for your high-end
database applications and then you have
an older traditional spinning discs and
performance capabilities and all flash
you might want to look at Enterprise
Plus to be able to assign these per
the backup server certificate in this
if you did have an actual cert through a
CA you can install it here notice you
also have Linux host authentication so
if you want to have them just
automatically add all the discovered
the default option or if you want to
actually do an import manually you do
have that ability using this option
under email settings this is where you
can enable email notifications using
all the settings necessary to set this
up notice here at the bottom you have a
few checkboxes that are going to be
important notify on warnings notify own
failures you do have the ability to get
notified on successes and then finally
suppress notifications until the last
retry so this is also important because
be backed up if it were to do a retry
and succeed on the second retry you
would actually get a failure
notification for that particular job
notify you that it did in fact grab a
important when to realize that that will
actually suppress any notification until
false positives SMTP settings if you
to use SNMP traps you have the ability
to do that here
notifications these are some very
important checks where we can notify you
if certain conditions are met such as
backup storage so your repository drops
levels on production data stores so warn
you if it gets below 10% and then
actually skip processing of any VM if it
goes below 5% on the source data store
if it was that low and we created a
snapshot during the backup activity or
replication activity it could
potentially fill up the data store
suspending everything so you definitely
make sure that you leave those
checkpoints in place so that you get
notified if any of those potentially
critical issues were to happen also
under support expiration you can enable
notifications about support contract
expiration
periodically we can phone home and check
hypervisor updates now for the
hypervisor updates this is going to
refer to Microsoft hyper-v in this case
looking for any VMware ESXi updates and
then finally under the history tab this
is where you can tweak what type of
history session and week retention that
quick tour of the solution the one final
thing I wanted to mention just so you
at any one of these jobs and you click
notification and statistic information
window here below the only other thing
that you do have the ability to tweak is
if you just want to do a compact view
where it just shows you the settings
here at the bottom you do have the
ability under the View tab to change
this to compact view or totally turn off
any statistics pane in my opinion I
really love the full view because it
actually breaks down VM by VM of
you all the steps one by one so that
it also gives you a nice bottleneck
detector so you can actually see where
the weak link is with your full beam
deployment thanks so much for watching
the video hopefully this has given you a
quick tour around the console itself
what is located where how to navigate to
want to be sure that you set upon
implementation for additional product
videos make sure to check out Viacom
got quite a few more how-to tutorials
and instructional videos enjoy the rest
of your day and thanks again for
watching
