a scale-up backup repository is an
abstraction layer in between the backup
job and your repositories to create a
layer in between in case you have a
dynamic environment where you have to
make changes to your repositories you
may not have to make changes to the
backup job now this is only an option in
enterprise and enterprise plus some of
the features that we can use for jobs
and tasks are backup jobs backup copy
jobs and even veeam zip tasks there are
different policies as well like data
locality as well as performance to allow
you to adjust how you want your data to
Vigne scale-up back of repositories
allow us to use multiple storage
locations called extents and view them
as a single repository in the Veen
backup and replication interface this
can greatly reduce the complexity of job
scale-up backup repository the first
regular backup repository as we zoom in
including at the end the word extent
this name extension will make this
data now we move to the repository
section where we can browse once we
looking at and go through to find the
area in which we want to store this data
to confirm we select ok as this is a
regular backup repository this will have
the same load control that you would
have for any other backup repository
this includes limit maxim concurrent
tasks and limit read and write data
rates we can also find additional
options by selecting advanced the first
two features include a line backup file
data blocks and if you use deduplication
decompress backup data blocks before
storing the one feature in this list
that is not supported by scale-up backup
repositories is this repository is
backed by rotated hard drives
permitted to be used as extends in a
scale of backup repository the last
feature in the list use per VM backup
files allows us to split our backup
files into one chain per virtual machine
which is seen right here this works both
at the extent level or on a scale of
backup repository as a whole which we
like to use we can then move on to the
mount server settings this is where you
can enable the v-power NFS service on
the mount server then we go to review
and then apply to create the storage
location this is also referred to as the
go and create a scale-out repository we
do this by right-clicking on scale-out
repository and selecting add scale-out
repository from the menu as we zoom in
give it its own unique name the next
step is to decide which extends will be
added to the performance tier this would
typically be our on-prem storage now we
click Add and select the extents that we
created earlier once selected we click
OK and now we can go down and take a
look at the advanced settings that are
down here in the bottom right the first
option use per VM backup files allows
the use of all the extents in this scale
out repository the second option will
allow us to force an active full backup
of the content we are requesting if an
the options we want we can then select
ok and move on to the next menu the next
section we will be configuring will be
the placement policy the placement
policy will define where the backup
files will be located within the extents
of your scale-out repository data
locality will allow us to keep our
chains of backup files together like
locating the full backups in the same
extent as the incrementals the
performance placement policy allows us
to split these backup files between
different extents this will spread the
load across your configured storage
locations once we select performance
in this menu we can see the two extents
that we configured earlier when we
select either one of the
extense will be able to go to the Edit
properties section to be able to make
additional changes so if I come up here
and I select the first extent which is
edit and now I can do backup files or
just incremental files in this example
some of our extents are using our EFS
you will need to keep all of your data
on the same extent if you want to take
advantage of our EFS s block clone
capabilities this would also be the
preferred option if you plan on using
deduplicated storage now we go to the
bottom and select next so we can now
move on to the capacity to your
configuration the first option we see is
extend scale-up backup repository
capacity with object storage once my
data is in a sealed chain the backup
files are no longer being merged because
window we can now build some objects
that can be sent to our object storage
with the data from our backup files
while also keeping a subset on Prem for
easy restore we also have the option to
encrypt data uploaded to object storage
at the bottom of this menu as well for
gonna uncheck the extend scale-up backup
repository capacity with object storage
for this example so simply unselecting
it will let us move on to the apply
option and then we can move on to the
repository once this process completes
we can select finish and it will show us
the scale-out repository has been
our new scale at repository and take a
look at the access permissions option if
we have Veeam agents writing data into
this backup repository we can select
which user or users are allowed to
access this scale-out repository we can
also force the use of encryption on the
backup files being saved to this
scale-out repository if you do choose to
use encryption make sure you have a good
recovery option in place like the manage
passwords option below if we right click
again we can see where we can set a
location or even view properties as well
if we select the scalar repository
extents which you can right click and
select proxy affinity this feature will
link the selected repositories to the
proxies best located for writing data
into it we can also select maintenance
mode or even evacuate backups when
required
now that the scale-up backup repository
more features now we can use scale-out
back up repositories with backup jobs
on a backup job and select edit to get
some more information once in the Edit
from the left this will then allow us to
go over and select backup repository and
back at repository that we created
called
how to sob our note that you only see
the scale out repository and not the
care of this through our configuration
of this scale out backup repository
a few more things as we said earlier
scale up backup repositories are
supported with backup copy jobs there
are types of data that cannot be stored
in scale out repositories the first is
metadata for our replication jobs that
will need to be stored in a standalone
backup repository additionally a very
important piece of data is the
configuration backup files if you go to
the main menu in the upper left-hand
corner you will see a drop-down with the
option to select configuration backup
they will need to be stored in a
standalone backup repository as well
thank you for watching this
demonstration
